[dramatic music]
DAN (VOICEOVER): After the Gundalians hijacked Bakugan
Interspace and forced us out, things
took a turn for the worse in the Battle for Neathia.
We decided to join Fabia as she returned home so we
could help with the fight.
Once we got there, we were made members of the Castle Knights.
Now Earth and Neathia were united in the struggle
to keep Barodius from stealing the sacred orb.
Lucky for us, we have the most powerful Bakugan, Dragonoid
Colossus, on our side.
Now, Drago!
Bakugan, brawl!
THEME SONG: What are you gonna do?
The odds are stacked against you.
Back against the wall.
Gotta give it your all.
Ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-ah.
This is the final stand.
The power's in your hand.
Two worlds collide on the inside.
You gotta fight for what's right before it's gone, gone, gone.
This is Bakugan.
[suspenseful music]
I really don't understand you, Jesse.
Doesn't it tick you off that we're the ones rotting in jail
here?
Why should we be their scapegoats, huh?
The Twelve Orders are blaming us so
that Barodius will spare them.
Our necks are on the chopping block.
Are you really going to sit there with your nose in a book
until it's too late?
I never figured you for a coward, Jesse.
I am merely pensive.
Huh?
If we're unhappy with the ending that's
been penned for us, then perhaps it is
time we rewrite it ourselves.
Yes, I lost Drago, but the second shield
would still be down if you hadn't let Dan and Shun
distract you like that.
I know it's your favorite tactic,
but don't think you can shift the blame to me.
I'm not one of your worthless lackeys, got it?
What?
There's still one last sucker we can throw to the lions.
I never liked Jesse, anyway, so it'll be fun to serve
him up to Emperor Barodius.
Ugh.
Master!
Master Stoica, sir!
STOICA: What is it?
Jesse's escaped!
Huh?
What?
KAZARINA: Now what, Stoica?
STOICA: Somebody bring me Ren right now!
[energetic music]
DAN (VOICEOVER): Bakugan Battle Brawlers in \"Curtain Call.\"
[music playing]
Guys, pitter-patter.
We're moving as fast as we can.
Yeah.
Quit being so bossy, will you?
Come on, dudes.
I bet I could stack 10 bricks before you do two.
Easy, just a little bit further.
Just a-- ah! - Oof.
Ah.
Ugh!
I meant to do that.
Yeah, I'll bet you did.
[laughter]
Guys, are we gonna let the Gundalians win?
BAKUGANS: Never!
Then why aren't we out there fighting?
Hey, Jake.
What's with the grumpy face, huh, dude?
The second shield is back up--
Dude, we need to keep hammering at them
while they're still scrambling for cover.
We need to rebuild first.
Drago's right.
No, he's not!
We finally got them on the ropes,
and now you want to take a break?
We're gonna lose momentum.
It's a mistake.
Seriously, dude.
Ugh, we're not ready.
What do you mean?
The Gundalian forces outnumber us 2 to 1, that's what.
We need to strengthen our fortifications to prepare
for any future battles.
I didn't come here to play with building blocks.
Hey, guys, can you give us a hand here?
Yeah, one sec.
Listen, are we cool?
Yeah, yeah, we're cool, dude.
I'm gonna do a perimeter check.
Jake!
Hold up, pal!
DRAGO: He reminds me of how you used to be.
Just because I'm new at this doesn't mean I'm stupid.
I'm gonna find me some Gundalians to thrash,
and then I'll show Dan and the others that I was right.
Come on, Jake.
Dan doesn't think you're stupid.
Oh, yeah?
Well, he sure treats me like it, but not anymore.
Jake!
[gasps]
What's wrong, Princess?
It's Jake.
[suspenseful music]
Why are we headed back toward Neathia?
We should be running in the opposite direction.
We barely made it out of that prison,
so I say it's time to split before they catch us again.
We need to give them one final performance, upon which
we may be fairly judged.
Whatever.
I still say we run.
[wind rustling]
Hmm, it's too late for that.
As you can probably guess, I've
been sent to retrieve you both.
And what if we refuse?
That's a question I don't think you want the answer to.
Why don't you just tell me, Linehalt?
How about I show you?
Well, I'm standing right here, Linehalt.
What are you waiting for?
You're finished.
That's enough, Linehalt. Master Stoica
has assured me you have nothing to fear if you return with me
immediately to Gundalia.
You'll be safe.
Hmm.
By the pricking of my thumbs, something
wicked this way comes.
Do you understand what I'm saying, Ren?
Not really.
What I'm saying is that I don't believe
you're being honest with me.
Huh?
Take him.
Jesse.
I'm ready.
[wind rustling]
JAKE: What is that?
Dude, no one told me about these things!
Ah!
This is gonna hurt!
Ooh!
Ugh!
You gotta lay off the cheeseburgers.
Ugh! Dude.
That was too close.
We should head back now.
Forget it.
I didn't almost get chomped by a giant head of lettuce
just to go back to Dan with my tail between my legs.
You're supposed to be my partner, now act like it.
OK, calm down.
Dude, I am totally calm!
FABIA: You could have fooled me, Jake.
What are you doing out here?
Fabia?
I'm not going back.
The faster we take down Gundalia,
the faster peace returns to Neathia.
You're very brave, Jake, but if you really
want to help Neathia, don't try and take on the Gundalian
invaders by yourself.
You're not strong enough.
Huh?
The truth is, none of us are.
We need to stick together.
On our own, we're vulnerable.
But united, we're strong.
A loss now, Jake, would be just devastating, given
the progress we've made so far.
Hmm.
I never thought of it that way.
FABIA: It may not seem like much to you,
but believe me when I say that the smiling faces on
that building site today were the first I
can remember seeing in Neathia since this war began.
And now with the brawlers by our side,
I truly believe peace will return to my home.
That's all I really want.
Can we go back?
Hmm.
[wind rustling]
[gasps]
Huh?
Princess, stand back!
Ren.
Jesse.
[energetic music]
FABIA (VOICEOVER): Aranaut, we have to protect the front line.
JAKE (VOICEOVER): Coredem, let's serve up another dose of pain!
How fitting that the co-star of my final
performance be Princess Fabia.
I am honored to play opposite such a marquee performer.
Wha?
Huh?
If I'm successful, those who wish to cancel my contract
will instead extend my engagement.
Jesse.
Don't worry yourself, Ren.
If I fail this time, I will return with you.
And you'll still have your trophy to give to your masters.
What are you doing?
Enough with this yacking!
If we're going to fight, then let's fight.
We're ready when you are, pal.
That's right.
I guess we're fighting, Aranaut.
Indeed.
Gate card, set.
[suspenseful music]
And so begins another fine drama.
Bakugan, brawl.
Bakugan, stand.
Rise, Ventus Plitheon.
It's gonna feel great to have one more kick at the can.
[roars]
Bakugan, brawl!
Bakugan, stand!
The only one who'll be doing the kicking is me.
Here we go.
Bakugan, brawl.
Bakugan, stand.
Go, Haos Aranaut.
In the name of all the Neathian Castle Knights,
I will triumph!
[energetic music]
[growls]
No, Ren.
This performance is mine, solo.
Gate card, open.
Ventus Reactor.
BOTH: Ah!
Don't worry, kiddies.
It'll be over before you know it.
Ability activate.
Fly Slasher.
[yelling]
[grunting]
Consecutive ability activate.
Hyper Verde.
Good call, Jesse.
I love this one.
[rock music]
[grunting]
Fly Destroyer.
Oh, yeah.
And I love this one even more.
[grunting]
I can't move!
Aranaut!
Stay strong, Aranaut.
Coredem!
JESSE: With such an exciting opening act,
we have no choice but to raise the stakes now.
Battle gear boost!
[laughing maniacally]
This is gonna be a blast.
[roars]
Oh, we can roll that way too.
Let's go!
COMPUTER: Ready Rock Hammer.
[energetic music]
Battle gear boost!
Oh, yeah!
While armor may provide a frightening appearance,
it is really what lies in the heart of your enemy
that one must fear.
Back to the fancy talk again?
Battle gear ability activate.
Sonic Gear Cyclotron.
That's more like it.
Choke on this.
Battle gear ability activate!
Rock Hammer Beo-Blaster!
Time for some punctuation.
Ah!
[gasps]
Whoa!
[grunting]
Oh, no.
Are you OK, Aranaut?
I have been battling like an amateur.
Forgive me, Princess.
Aranaut, no need to apologize.
We can still win this one.
I let you down.
We can't be a bunch of mopey pants.
Huh?
Let's hurry up and win so we can get back
and help Dan and the others rebuild.
Aight?
Right.
Let's do this, guys!
Gate card, set!
Bakugan, brawl!
Bakugan, stand!
Let's thrash these jerkies, Coredem!
Bakugan, brawl.
[grunts]
Bakugan, stand.
[roars]
Bakugan, brawl.
Bakugan, stand.
I'm ready to do this again.
You gonna just watch, Ren?
JESSE (VOICEOVER): If I fail, I will return with you,
and you'll still have your trophy to give to your masters.
REN (VOICEOVER): He has no intention of returning with me.
Win or lose, this will be his final battle.
I hear the sound of victory floating on the wind.
Ability activate.
Ghost Storm.
Watch closely.
This one's gonna blow your mind.
[roars]
[wind howling]
Uh, did he just disappear?
[laughing maniacally]
BOTH: [yelling]
No big deal.
Punks.
Ability activate!
Crush Arrow.
[roars]
Wah!
That's right.
That's how we do it.
Huh!
Bakugan, brawl!
Bakugan, stand.
Rise, Darkus Linehalt.
Ah!
Linehalt?
I told you to stay out of this.
This may have started as a solo,
but it will end as a duet.
Huh?
We'll take on Linehalt. Ability activate.
Vector Fist.
This time, it's going to end differently.
[growling]
Come and get it.
Ability activate!
Dark Saber.
[grunting]
Ugh!
Fusion ability activate!
Boomerang Bow!
Huh?
Didn't see that coming.
Gate card, open!
Huh?
BOTH: Whoa!
Ugh!
How many times do we have to beat you lunkheads before you
learn that we'll never give up?
Neathia will never be yours, so you might as well pack
your bags and scram, actor boy.
Huh?
What?
Ah!
Now, get ready for some level 2 battle gear
action from Coredem, got it?
COMPUTER: Ready Rock Hammer.
Battle gear boost!
[rock music]
Let's rock.
We're not scared.
Ability activate!
Dark Javelin!
[roaring]
Battle gear ability activate!
Rock Hammer Battle Element!
[grunting]
We did it.
Yeah.
[growls] We're not losing this, Jesse!
Well, we weren't until you joined in the fight.
Now, where we, Ren?
Let's get back into this and show them how it's done.
Gate card, set.
Bakugan, brawl!
ALL: Bakugan, stand!
[roaring]
Ability activate.
Life Eater!
Razen Breaker!
Do you noobs think you can handle--
--a dual attack?
[yelling]
Ability activate.
Light Wave!
Ah!
She nullified the ability.
It doesn't matter!
Gate card, open!
Ring Zero!
[grunting]
What's happening?
FABIA: They nullified our ability.
Here's a little Subterra styling.
Ability activate!
Change Exia!
[growling]
What the?
[energetic music]
Do something!
He flipped the gate card effect?
Bingo.
Change Exia is a reversal trick that
takes the effect of your opponent's gate card
and turns it back on them.
Now we can't--
FABIA: Can't win.
That's right.
Neathia's future is one of freedom from tyranny, Jesse.
Oh, no.
Ability activate!
Aurora Impact!
The final curtain is about to drop--
on you!
Ah?
[yelling]
BOTH: [grunting]
Victory is ours, Princess.
[energetic music]
Time for my final bow.
Let's go, Ren.
Huh?
I am, after all, a man of my word.
And now I must face my critics, regardless of the outcome.
Very well.
That's right!
We kicked those dudes to the curb.
[dramatic music]
KAZARINA: Have you finally accepted your fate, Jesse?
Or do you need to rack up another colossal failure for it
to sink in?
Nice work on the retrieval, Ren.
In fairness, I was also involved
in the battle that was lost.
Well, I'll let you share that information with Emperor
Barodius in person.
[growls]
So, are you two finally ready to pay the piper?
It is you who needs to be ready to bid
adieu to Gundalia's finest actor.
Wha?
Huh?
The applause has finally faded,
and the curtain has dropped.
There are no more encores to be had on this stage or any other.
So now the actor takes his final bow.
Ha!
Are you serious?
Do we really have to listen to this?
Now you know how I feel.
I can't take anymore of this.
I'm ready to go now.
Anything to get away from this weirdo.
Huh?
Plitheon?
Finally at a loss for words, Jesse?
What a shock.
[dramatic music]
Huh?
Ah.
Turning on your battle partner, Plitheon?
You truly are despicable.
[laughs] Lower than scum.
[grunting]
Plitheon, it's OK.
Sometimes co-stars have friction between them.
It's a natural part of the relationship.
I meant what I said.
Call me what you want, but I'm done with this guy.
[dramatic music]
Ren, it looks like the spotlight
has shifted to you now.
Farewell.
STOICA: So we stick to the plan and blame this defeat on Jesse,
got it?
Yes.
That way, Emperor Barodius doesn't
question our competency.
And what are you two doing down
here, whispering and scurrying around like a couple of rats?
You may have everyone else fooled,
but you don't have me fooled.
I can smell your desperation and your treachery
from a mile away.
[chuckles]
Ugh!
[laughing]
MARUCHO (VOICEOVER): With the second shield
back up and working, we shifted our focus
to rebuilding our bases.
Unfortunately, it didn't take long for the Gundalians
to start circling overhead.
Then something incredible happened.
Somehow, Ren managed to make his way through.
Somewhere, there was a breach in our security,
but figuring out where would have to wait.
Ren and I had a score to settle first.
Tune in to catch some monstrous brawling action!
Bakugan, brawl!
This battle is unbelievable!
[theme music]